Add remediation steps to the PKI health-check docs (#21364)
hashicorp/vault: website/content/docs/commands/pki/health-check.mdx

This health check will check each issuer in the mount for validity status, returning a list. If a CA expires within the next 30 days, the result will be critical. If a root CA expires within the next 12 months or an intermediate CA within the next 2 months, the result will be a warning. If a root CA expires within 24 months or an intermediate CA within 6 months, the result will be informational.

**Remediation Steps**:

> Remove old CAs after they expire and perform a [CA rotation operation](/vault/docs/secrets/pki/rotation-primitives) for any with pending expiry.

Author: Sorry when you say both operations what operations, besides the tidy, are you referring too? The linked rotation-primitives covers a lot of the commands/steps required to rotate issuers

> Remove old CAs after they expire and perform a [CA rotation operation](/vault/docs/secrets/pki/rotation-primitives) for any with pending expiry.

Author: Let me know what you think of the new wording.

 - `allowed_roles` `(list: nil)` - an allow-list of roles to ignore.

This health check checks each role to see whether or not it allows wildcard issuance with glob domains as well - these two interact and can result in nested wildcards and other quirks.

> **Remediation Steps**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Remediation steps**:
```

> It is strongly suggested that roles either set `allow_glob_domains` or `allow_wildcard_certificates`, but not both to true. If both behaviors are required, we'd suggest splitting it into two roles unless required for all SANs on the certificate. Otherwise, add this role to `allowed_roles` to ignore future warnings about this role.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Split any role that need both of `allow_glob_domains` and `allow_wildcard_certificates` to be true into two roles.
1. Continue splitting roles until both of the following are true for all roles:
    - The role has `allow_glob_domains` **or** `allow_wildcard_certificates`, but
      not both.
    - Roles with `allow_glob_domains` **and** `allow_wildcard_certificates` are
      the only roles required for **all** SANs on the certificate.
1. Add the roles that allow glob domains and wildcards to `allowed_roles` so
   Vault ignores them in future checks.
```

I'm assuming that making sure only one of the two values is true is the only appropriate remediation. If so, mentioning that it's strongly recommended isn't necessary. The fact that we're providing it as a remediation already implies that ;)

 - `allowed_roles` `(list: nil)` - an allow-list of roles to ignore.

> This health check checks each role to see whether it sets `no_store=false` or not. When used with lots of certificates and no temporal auto-rebuilding of CRLs, this can result in bad performance. Instead, [BYOC](/vault/api-docs/secret/pki#revoke-certificate) can be used for the occasional revocation and shorter certificate lifetimes used instead. Without auto-rebuild, this will be a warning, but when auto-rebuild is enabled, we can make it informational.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Checks each role to see whether `no_store` is set to `false`.

<Important>
Vault will provide warnings and performance will suffer if you have a large
number of certificates without temporal CRL auto-rebuilding and set `no_store`
to `true`.
</Important>
```

The other information is semi-duplicated in the remediation section so I merged and simplified it.

> *NOTE* if the role is used for ACME issuance, `no_store=true` is required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Suggest deleting the stand-alone note and adding it to the remediation steps instead to make sure folks see it.

> **Remediation Steps**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Remediation steps**:
```

> Update the role setting the `no_store` field to `false` and switch to using [BYOC revocations](/vault/api-docs/secret/pki#revoke-certificate) and shorter certificate lifetimes if possible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Update none-ACME roles with `no_store=false`. **NOTE**: Roles used for ACME
   issuance must have `no_store`  set to `true`.
1. Set your certificate lifetimes as short as possible.
1. Use [BYOC revocations](/vault/api-docs/secret/pki#revoke-certificate) to
   revoke certificates as needed.
```

This health check checks whether audit information is accessible to log consumers, validating whether our list of safe and unsafe audit parameters are generally followed. These are informational responses, if any are present.

> **Remediation Steps**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Remediation steps**:
```

> The following vault command can be used to set the desired audit parameters:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use `vault secrets tune` to set the desired audit parameters:
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```shell-session
```

This health check verifies if the `If-Modified-Since` header has been added to `passthrough_request_headers` and if `Last-Modified` header has been added to `allowed_response_headers`. This is an informational message if both haven't been configured, or a warning if only one has been configured.

> **Remediation Steps**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Remediation steps**:
```

> Add the missing headers to the `allowed_response_headers` and `passthrough_request_headers` with the command:
> 
> ```
> vault secrets tune \
>   -passthrough-request-headers="If-Modified-Since" \
>   -allowed-response-headers="Last-Modified" \
>   <mount>
> ```
> 
> If ACME support is desired, the following command will enable the ACME specific headers as well
> 
> ```
> vault secrets tune \
>   -passthrough-request-headers="If-Modified-Since" \
>   -allowed-response-headers="Last-Modified" \
>   -allowed-response-headers="Replay-Nonce" \
>   -allowed-response-headers="Link" \
>   -allowed-response-headers="Location" \
>   <mount>
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Update `allowed_response_headers` and `passthrough_request_headers` for all
   policies with `vault secrets tune`:
    ```shell-session
    vault secrets tune \
      -passthrough-request-headers="If-Modified-Since" \
      -allowed-response-headers="Last-Modified" \
      <mount>
    ```
1. Update ACME-specific headers with `vault secrets tune` (if you are using ACME):
    ```shell-session
    vault secrets tune \
      -passthrough-request-headers="If-Modified-Since" \
      -allowed-response-headers="Last-Modified" \
      -allowed-response-headers="Replay-Nonce" \
      -allowed-response-headers="Link" \
      -allowed-response-headers="Location" \
      <mount>
    ```
```

This health check verifies that auto-tidy is enabled, with sane defaults for interval_duration and pause_duration. Any disabled findings will be informational, as this is a best-practice but not strictly required, but other findings w.r.t. `interval_duration` or `pause_duration` will be critical/warnings.

**Remediation Steps**:---

> Auto-tidy can be enabled with a good set of defaults with the following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Auto-tidy can be enabled with a recommended set of defaults with the following command:
```

This health check verifies that auto-tidy is enabled, with sane defaults for interval_duration and pause_duration. Any disabled findings will be informational, as this is a best-practice but not strictly required, but other findings w.r.t. `interval_duration` or `pause_duration` will be critical/warnings.

> **Remediation Steps**:---

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Remediation steps**
```

> Auto-tidy can be enabled with a recommended set of defaults with the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use `vault write` to enable auto-tidy with the recommended defaults:
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```shell-session
```

This health check verifies that tidy has run within the last run window. This can be critical/warning alerts as this can start to seriously impact Vault's performance.

**Remediation Steps**:

Read the tidy status endpoint, `vault read <mount>/tidy-status`, for possible error messages of why tidy has failed to run in the past, otherwise schedule a manual run of tidy or consider configuring auto-tidy

> To manually run a tidy operation:

Reviewer 2: This doesn't match with the below fwiw.

Reviewer 2: I'd still recommend auto-tidy here, but would perhaps still do a manual tidy.

Author: Fixed

This health check verifies that tidy has run within the last run window. This can be critical/warning alerts as this can start to seriously impact Vault's performance.

> **Remediation Steps**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Remediation steps**:
```

> Read the tidy status endpoint, `vault read <mount>/tidy-status`, for possible error messages of why tidy has failed to run in the past, otherwise schedule a manual run of tidy or consider configuring auto-tidy
> 
> To manually run a tidy operation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Schedule a manual run of tidy with `vault write`:
    ```shell-session
    vault write <mount>/tidy \
      tidy_cert_store=true \
      tidy_revoked_certs=true \
      tidy_acme=true \
      tidy_revocation_queue=true \
      tidy_cross_cluster_revoked_certs=true \
      tidy_revoked_cert_issuer_associations=true
    ```
1. Review the tidy status endpoint, `vault read <mount>/tidy-status` for
   additional information.
1. Re-configure auto-tidy based on the log information and results of your
   manual run.
```

> ```
> vault write <mount>/tidy \
>   tidy_cert_store=true \
>   tidy_revoked_certs=true \
>   tidy_acme=true \
>   tidy_revocation_queue=true \
>   tidy_cross_cluster_revoked_certs=true \
>   tidy_revoked_cert_issuer_associations=true
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Folded into explicit remediation steps

This health check verifies that this cluster has a reasonable number of certificates. Ideally this would be fetched from tidy's status or a new metric reporting format, but as a fallback when tidy hasn't run, a list operation will be performed instead.

**Remediation Steps**:

If a large amount of certificates have accumulated, verify that tidy has recently run using `vault read <mount>/tidy-status`. Consider

> enabling `auto-tidy` based on instructions above.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
enabling `auto-tidy` based on instructions above and running a manual tidy.
```

Also ensure that certificates are not being renewed too soon based on lifetimes, roughly 2/3 of its lifetime, and
certificates are being issued with appropriate lifetimes based on their usage.

> To help going forward, consider setting all role's `no_store` field to `true` and leverage [BYOC revocations](/vault/api-docs/secret/pki#revoke-certificate) to avoid storage.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To help going forward, consider setting all roles' `no_store` fields to `true` and leverage [BYOC revocations](/vault/api-docs/secret/pki#revoke-certificate) to avoid storage.
```

This health check verifies that this cluster has a reasonable number of certificates. Ideally this would be fetched from tidy's status or a new metric reporting format, but as a fallback when tidy hasn't run, a list operation will be performed instead.

> **Remediation Steps**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Remediation steps**:
```

> If a large amount of certificates have accumulated, verify that tidy has recently run using `vault read <mount>/tidy-status`. Consider
> enabling `auto-tidy` based on instructions above and running a manual tidy.
> 
> Also ensure that certificates are not being renewed too soon based on lifetimes, roughly 2/3 of its lifetime, and
> certificates are being issued with appropriate lifetimes based on their usage.
> 
> To help going forward, consider setting all roles' `no_store` fields to `true` and leverage [BYOC revocations](/vault/api-docs/secret/pki#revoke-certificate) to avoid storage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Verify that tidy ran recently with `vault read`:
    ```shell-session
    vault read <mount>/tidy-status
    ````
1. Schedule a manual run of tidy with `vault write`:
	    ```shell-session
	    vault write <mount>/tidy \
	      tidy_cert_store=true \
	      tidy_revoked_certs=true \
	      tidy_acme=true \
	      tidy_revocation_queue=true \
	      tidy_cross_cluster_revoked_certs=true \
	      tidy_revoked_cert_issuer_associations=true
	    ```
1. Enable `auto-tidy`.
1. Make sure that you are not renewing certificates too soon. Certificate
   lifetimes should reflect the expected usage of the certificate. If the TTL is
   set appropriately, most certificates renew at approximately 2/3 of their
   lifespan.
1. Consider setting the `no_store` field for all roles to `true` and use [BYOC revocations](/vault/api-docs/secret/pki#revoke-certificate) to avoid storage.
```

This health check verifies that ACME is enabled within a mount that contains an intermediary issuer, as this is considered a best-practice to support a self-rotating PKI infrastructure.

> **Remediation Steps**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reading isn't a remediation step, so I would delete this line.

> Read about enabling ACME support in Vault within the [ACME Certificate Issuance](/vault/api-docs/secret/pki#acme-certificate-issuance) API documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Review the [ACME Certificate Issuance](/vault/api-docs/secret/pki#acme-certificate-issuance)
API documentation to learn about enabling ACME support in Vault.
```

**Config Parameters**: (none)

This health check verifies if the `"Replay-Nonce`, `Link`, and `Location` headers have been added to `allowed_response_headers`, when the ACME feature is enabled. The ACME protocol will not work if these headers are not added to the mount.

> **Remediation Steps**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Remediation steps**:
```

> Add the missing headers to the `allowed_response_headers` with the command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use `vault secrets tune` to add the missing headers to `allowed_response_headers`:
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```shell-session
```
